Shop wood, carry water. All small
choices matter. What you eat, what you
consume, what you practice. This book is
about falling in love with the process.
Quote, "Greatness is not for the chosen
few, but for the few that choose." Hi,
and welcome to the book lab. I'm Bjorn,
and today we're going to take a closer
look at Shopwood, Carry Water by Joshua
Medov. [music]
Shopwood, Carry Water. At its heart, uh,
this book allows us to follow a young
man named John. And John, he has a big
dream. He wants to become a samurai
archer. As he is thrown into this
endeavor, he is thrusted into a rigorous
training regime under a cryptic teacher
named Akira Sensei. Jon, he expects to
learn flashy techniques and experience
epic battles, but instead he gets handed
an axe and a bucket. Tasked with the
seemingly medial shores of shopping wood
and carrying water, each short chapter
unfolds as a parable revealing how these
mundane acts build not just physical
strength but mental resilience as well,
focus and character. The story is
presented through discourse between uh
Akira Sensei and John. As he goes
through his training, he struggles with
different aspects of the life of the
samurai. And it's all neatly packaged in
short chapters with easy to understand
key lessons basically about
self-discipline uh mindfulness why we
need to practice why we need to sweat
the small stuff. The expression carry
wood shopwood carry water comes from the
tradition of Sen Buddhism. Quote before
enlightenment shop wood carry water.
After enlightenment shop wood carry
water. The expression reminds us of the
importance of maintaining daily routines
and being mindful in everyday mundane
tasks. And as in the case of this book,
it also reminds us that humility and
discipline helps us as we build our life
and our character. I want to take the
opportunity to share some of the best
lessons that I got from this book. And
one of those lessons is the idea of not
only sticking with the theoretical but
also put things into practice. quote,
"In a world where anyone can look up
information online, it's deceptively
easy to gain knowledge. You can get
pretty confident by reading everything
you can get your hands on about the
subject. It's called artificial
maturity." The book mentions two types
of knowledge, ginosco and yada. And
there's a big difference where ginosco
means that you have knowledge about
something. Yada on the other hand is
knowledge that you gotten as you have
experienced something. I guess one
reason uh this idea stood out to me is
because I have applied this a lot in
recent years. Uh when I'm studying a
subject, I try to get practical as well.
Um for instance, I was reading the
Bitcoin standard recently and got really
interested in that technology. U so not
only reading about it but also building
a node uh understanding how hardware
wallets worked uh all all of that became
becoming more practical with that idea.
And as I read more about uh economics
and markets uh which I did a couple of
months ago, I started to trading not big
sums but getting actual practical
experience of how market works, how it
feels to lose money, how it feels to
win. It actually helps a lot and you
learn a lot faster. The second idea that
stood out to me is the idea that nothing
is a test. Quote, nothing is a test. If
you look at something as a test, you
will focus only on passing this test
instead of maximizing your growth
through the experience. Over time, the
person who focuses on maximizing how
they can learn and grow will become much
greater than the person who sees lives
as a continual test to prove themselves.
I thought about this a lot recently
since my son started to get tests in
school and I saw him being nervous about
it and I think this is a great framing
that I want to pass on to him. There's
another powerful story in the book about
um a professional that is building
houses and he's getting tired of his job
and want to start his new career. So,
he's working on his last project and
he's kind of ignoring the details trying
to get through it as fast as possible.
Um when he finished the house, uh his
co-workers or whatever it was um gives
him a gift on his ending day and it's a
pair of keys. The keys are to the house
that you just built. Here's our gift to
you. We want to give you this as a
thanks to you for your long and good
service to the company. Here's the keys
to your house. Of course, this carpenter
will see all the small details and all
the shortcuts that he took along the
way. And I think this is an important
mindset like you're building your own
house, mind the details. I picked up
this book for two main reasons. The
first one being the title shopwood carry
water. It's one of my favorite
expressions basically. And the second
one is that I feel like I have a little
bit of a loss of focus and aim in life
right now. And I thought this book might
bring some new ideas and see how I just
can get out of that state. Um, this book
is extremely accessible and it holds
some really really good lessons and for
me who's kind of have a weak spot for
Eastern philosophy and eastern way of
thinking, uh, it's it's really
enjoyable. It definitely feels like it's
aimed at a younger audience. I'm 40. Uh,
I think I would enjoy this much more if
I read it in my 20ies when I was first
starting out on my own journey. Uh so if
you're a beginner of read reading
self-help non-fiction books, personal
development, then this is a really good
book in the same vein as the compound
effect, think and grow rich or eat that
frog by Brian Tracy. Um for me, there
was nothing really new here and I think
I might have forgotten about this book
in a couple of months even though I
enjoyed reading it in the moment. That's
how it goes when you record in the
forest. Uh, where were I? I was talking
about who should read it and who should
not. Yeah. And one more thing, if you're
allergic to personal development content
that is wrapped in a story in a parable
like fable like fashion, then you should
stay away from this book. as a jaded
40-year-old non-fiction reader who has
read all uh the personal development
classics. Uh well, there's not nothing
not much new here, but for newer
readers, definitely pick it up,
especially if you struggle with the
grind and having discipline and
self-control. It will give you some
inspiration and practical advice on how
to move on. And I want to end with my
favorite line from this book. Do not
pretend that like you're going to live
twice. I'm here in the forest today
recording because well I didn't have any
privacy at home. There was electricians
at home. So h it's like that sometime
but I still want to grind this through.
I have more book reviews coming up and
the next one will probably be Ken Swan
Holm's book Everything Divided by 21
million. It's a libertarian book about
the state of
the economy, how to move forward, uh
what new technologies can allow us to
save during inflation. H I really enjoy
the book. It's very philosophical. I'm
going to turn off the camera because I'm
going to fall otherwise. But thanks for
tuning in. Let me know what you read in
the comments. And if you have ever
gotten any like enjoyment out of this
channel, then please like and
uh give a thumbs up. It really helps me
reach more people. Happy reading
everyone.